---
title: Research in the Samelson Lab
layout: default
group: research
---

<div class="row">

# Our research
The long-term goals of our research are to understand the large scale protein conformational changes that proteins undergo during aggregation– a protein's aggregation trajectory– and how different cell types control those trajectories. We take a protein energy landscape view of protein folding and misfolding and combine it with systems genetics technologies to gain a comprehensive view of how neurons control protein aggregation. 

<br>
<br>

<! </div>

<div class="row">

### Identifying hidden alternative conformations of proteins and ligands in biophysical data

<div class="col-md-7 order-md-1">

We study proteins as conformational ensembles.
Although X-ray crystallography is an ensemble experiment, the results are typically summarized with a single static structure.
We develop [**software**](https://github.com/ExcitedStates/qfit-3.0) to discover the structural ensembles present in the crystal (or on the EM grid).
The ensemble nature of proteins highlighted by this work feeds into all of our mechanistic studies that interpret the functional effects of mutations, that characterize designed and artificially-evolved proteins, or that seek to modulate protein function with small molecules.
These methods development efforts are central to discovering new allosteric ligands, through high throughput crystallographic fragment screening efforts.
We are expanding, this direction to include modeling and validating protein structural data generated by cryo-electron microscopy (using EMRinger and ensemble modeling) and through integrative approaches to discover cryptic ligand binding sites.
These methods development efforts are central to discovering new allosteric ligands, through high throughput crystallographic fragment screening efforts.

</div> -->
</div>
